Would be nice to be more specific about that error message here.
Now if you inspect the response we're getting back, you can of course see that on the response object,
we have that error field and
if we dig into that, there is another error field,
so unless that error error field and if we dig into that, we see we have a message.
That's a message provided by Firebase
and if you have a look at the Firebase REST API documentation and you scroll down a bit, you'll see common
error codes that are thrown by that endpoint
and that would be, for example e-mail exists.
So in the end, we just have to check for these codes and we can output a more helpful error message.
Now we could do that here in our component, here where we get that error
we could check with a switch statement for example if my error response, maybe we should name this error
response to be more specific about what this is because it's the full response object and on there, we have
an error key and we have an error key and there we have a message key and we switch on that message and then we have
a case where this is e-mail exists for example and now we set this error to this e-mail exists already
for example, like this, instead of doing it like that. And if we would save that code here, it already should
do its job
and if I try signing up with that e-mail address, I get the e-mail exists already.
Now we could do that here but handling everything of that here in the component is not necessarily the
best possible way of doing that,
it moves too much logic into the component, which should primarily focus on updating the UI and not
so much about handling the response correctly
and that therefore screams for the usage of an rxjs/operator that allows us to handle errors here
in the service, in our observable chain we're setting up here,
so on this observable. For that, we can simply pipe on this observable and add rxjs/operators and
here
I am interested in one operator and that is the catch error operator.
Now catch error needs to be imported from rxjs/operators to be available in that file and
we will also need one other thing
and that will be the throw error function from just RxJS which will create a new observable that
wraps an error because if you remember the earlier sections of this course, RxJS always needs
to return an observable down there and catch error catches the error but you still then need to return
a new observable and that observable should still wrap the error so that it still ends up here in that
error case in our subscription
and we do want to end up there,
I just want to move more logic from there into the observable chain. And indeed therefore, we can grab
that switch statement and move it into here, in catch error,
we get that same error response we previously got in the subscribe function and therefore in here, we
can switch on that error response, error error message and set the error, though a bit differently,
we can add a new variable, error message maybe, an unknown error occurred, that could be our default message
in case we can't identify a more specific error
and then here, I'll just set the error message to this e-mail exists already.
Now important, this switch statement here will fail if the error we're getting doesn't have that format
and that could be the case,
for example if we have a network error. So therefore here, I'll check if the error response does not,
and therefore the exclamation mark at the beginning, have an error key or if it does not
have an error key on the error key to avoid that this axis here fails because if it has either no error key
or then no nested error key,
then we know we can't access that message because the error we are getting seems to be in a different format
and therefore in this case, I immediately want to return throw error and wrap my error message here, so
that we'll throw an observable that in the end just wraps that message,
otherwise we'll make it into that switch statement here and there,
we have only one case, we'll add more cases later, here
I then also in the end want to return throw error with my error message.
So now that error message conversion logic happens in the auth service which is a better place for that
and in the auth component, here in the error case, we now just get the error message because we subscribe
to an observable here which here in the error case will be an observable that only contains a message
because we throw an error observable that just includes that message.
So we know that we get the error message here as a data point, we can print it here but more importantly,
of course we can now set this error equal to that error message
and this should now have the effect that if we go back and we try creating that same user again, we
get this e-mail exists already here which is of course the same behavior as before but now with the logic
moved into the service which is the place where that logic should be
so that our component is way leaner.